# Term-Project
The repository for the term project by Jaiveer Nalwa and Varoon Raghav

## Project Proposal

### The Big Idea: What is the main idea of your project? What topics will you explore and what will you accomplish? Describe your minimum viable product (MVP) and your stretch goal.

The main idea of the project is to make a Trivia game for users to play. Essentially, by leveraging the OpenAI API, we can generate trivia questions and ask the user the questions. We can then use the OpenAI API to check if the user's answer is correct and see how far they can go until they run out of three lives. The difficulty of the game will continually increase as the user gets multiple questions right in a row. The game will then store the user's score in a leaderboard file so they can constantly try to set new high scores. The OpenAI API can generate an unlimited number of questions that fit within multiple categories. The minimum viable product is a platform where the user can play the game over and over again and compare their scores to other people who play it locally. The stretch goal is to add an online functionality that allows players to compete to set high scores against their friends on an online leaderboard.

### Learning Objectives: Since this is a team project, you may want to articulate both shared and individual learning goals. 

The learning objectives that come with this project are mainly figuring out how to access two APIs and finding a successful and efficient way for these two APIs to communicate with each other to present easily understandable information to a r. We will work with two different APIs (a game API and a chatbot API) with different functions. The game API will allow us to learn how to access data and configure it into a legible manner. The chatbot API will allow us to learn how to take data as input and output relevant information regarding that data. Since this is a team project, the learning objectives also focus on us learning to be able to successfully work collaboratively, both synchronously and asynchronously. We will learn to leverage tools such as Git cloning and the VSCode Live Share extension to collaborate. Furthermore, we must also learn how to delegate work and structure the process in a way where we don’t impact each other's workflow and neither team member must overtly rely on the other.  

### Implementation Plan: This part may be somewhat ambiguous initially. You might have identified a library or a framework that you believe would be helpful for your project at this early stage. If you're uncertain about executing your project plan, provide a rough plan describing how you'll investigate this information further. 

The implementation of the project relies on the OpenAI API that we are leveraging. The OpenAI API can generate questions within different categories and also check if the user's answer is correct by comparing it to the answer generated by the API. By accessing ChatGPT's unlimited corpus of data, a wide variety of trivia questions can be generated without any repetition of the same questions. The API can also generate multiple-choice options for the user to consider. The application will also count the user's lives, their score, and the difficulty that they have and it can be written to an external file with Python. We will make use of Flask and HTML to create a platform that is visually pleasing and has a simple user experience. The platform will allow the user to play the game, store their score with their name, and check the overall local leaderboard. We will need to figure out exactly how to make the OpenAI API communicate with the user and how to output the questions it generates as well as compare the user's answer to the API-generated answer. Furthermore, we must test the efficacy of ChatGPT’s questions as we implement the project. We will investigate the extent of the capability of the API and see exactly how detailed and specific the data and generated questions can be. 

### Project Schedule: You have 6 weeks (roughly) to finish the project. Draft a general timeline for your project. Depending on your project, you might be able to provide a detailed schedule or only an overview. Preparation of a longer project is also accompanied by present uncertainty, and this schedule will likely require revisions as the project progresses. 

For the schedule, the main task is to create functions that implement API calls with the tOpenAI API and have them communicate with the user without telling them the answer. This is the main feature of the project and will be time-consuming to complete as we will need to create functions that call the API as well as a function that takes data from the API and feeds it to the user. Additionally, there needs to be a function that takes the user's inputted answer and feed it back into the OpenAI API to compare it to the right answer. Lastly, we also must work on UI/UX design and make the final product visually pleasing and simple to use. We expect the writing of the functions will take about 3-4 weeks. Specifically, the implementation of API calls, functions that parse and share data and the function that relays information to the user will be the most time-consuming aspect. After that, it will take us around 2 weeks to go from a terminal output to a full user experience using Flask and HTML/XSS. Since we are working with a complex API which we have limited experience with, the writing of the first part might take more time, thus, the schedule will be revised and more focused as we continue throughout the project. 

### Collaboration Plan: How will you collaborate with your teammates on this project? Will you divide tasks and then incorporate them separately? Will you undertake a comprehensive pair program? Explain how you'll ensure effective team collaboration. This may also entail information on any software development methodologies you anticipate using (e.g. agile development). Be sure to clarify why you've picked this specific organizational structure. 

We plan to collaborate synchronously and asynchronously, taking advantage of the fact that we have two people to divide tasks but also share our knowledge to complete tasks that might be too difficult for either one of us to complete alone. We will use the Microsoft Live Share extension to work synchronously, using this time to work on difficult aspects such as the API implementation. If we need to work on API implementation separately, we can each work on one of the functions which will call the API (question generation and answer comparison, respectively), thus we wouldn’t impact each other’s workflow. Subsequently, we can also split work on the backend and frontend aspects of the project, especially after the difficult aspects of the backend program such as the API implementation, are completed. We will stay agile with our workflow, constantly working on all parts of the project and being in constant communication with each other about our progress, process, and any difficulty we may encounter. We will also make use of comments in our respective code to help the other team members understand just in case they may need to refer to the other member’s code. Lastly, we will work together at the end of the project synchronously to make sure the final product is fully functional with no bugs and up to both team members’ standards. 

### Risks and Limitations: What do you believe is the most significant threat to this project's success? 

The biggest threat to our project’s success is the large scope and deep difficulty we must accomplish in a relatively short period of time. In about six weeks, we must understand and develop multiple implementations of a complex API that require deep understanding to work successfully. We might be in over our heads with the project’s scope as if we are unable to successfully implement the API, the project is dead on arrival. Furthermore, another risk is being able to develop a simple and accessible UI in the short time we have as well. We need to have a thorough understanding of Flask, HTML, and CSS to create a user experience that is usable by anyone. Lastly, there is a risk where the OpenAI API may not be able to understand the data provided by the user or it may create questions with wrong answers, in which case, the API is not able to successfully communicate with the user. We can potentially solve this issue by feeding game data to ChatGPT to create a Trivia-specific corpus or even writing functions to parse the data (or questions) and reform it in such a way that it is understandable to the user. 

### Additional Course Content: What topics do you believe will be beneficial to your project? 

Additional content that would be beneficial to the project would be I/O code. By being able to output generated scores to a file, the user can hold onto their score and try to beat it in his next game, providing long-term feedback that stays with the user. It also allows multiple players to play the game and compare scores with each other. Also, we need to learn more about API implementation and the extent of Flask and HTML/CSS capabilities to create a simple and visually appealing user experience. The functionality of the project is irrelevant if the user struggles to access the data and feedback. 
